# Oculus Quest

Oculus Quest support is in progress.  Currently, you can only use it to view
models, not edit them.  You can view a number of demo models, as well as any
model that you have uploaded to the cloud (via SketchUp running on a PC).

Note that cloud uploads require a registered version of VR Sketch.

Note also that the beta "Oculus Link" offers a different way to use the Quest.
For this way, see the <a href="docs-getting-started.html">VR Sketch for PC</a> page.


### Installation

Our software is not officially sanctioned by Oculus.  This makes installing it
a rather lenghty process; there is nothing we can do about that.  You will even
have to register on the Oculus web site as a "developer"---even if you are not.
It is just a poor choice of words in our opinion.  Oculus knows about and
recognizes such usages.


### Be sure you have the right cable

You will need a cable to physically connect your computer to the Quest (only
during installation).  The long charging cable that comes with the Quest works
fine if you have a USB-C connector on your computer.  If you don't, you'll need
either a USB-C-to-USB-2 cable, or a converter.

Note that this computer doesn't have to be the same computer as the PC which
runs SketchUp and VR Sketch.  It can be a Windows or Mac or Linux computer.


### Install SideQuest

<a href="https://sidequestvr.com/#/setup-howto">Install SideQuest.</a>  Follow
the steps 1 to 5 (step 6 is not required).


### Install VR Sketch for Quest

Download <a href="downloads.html">VR Sketch for Quest.</a>  It is a file with
the extension ".apk".

With SideQuest running, drag and drop this apk file from your computer's folder
to the SideQuest window (you may have to drop it precisely on the green dot in
the top-left corner; it will say "Drop file(s) here!"). To view the result, or
if there are errors, click the colorful number "1" among the top-line icons.

If everything worked correctly, then inside the Quest's home environment, you
can go to the Library and pick the "Unknown sources" page.  You should see
"eu.baroquesoftware.VRSketch" there.


### View demos models

In the Quest, run "eu.baroquesoftware.VRSketch".  You are sent to the VR Sketch
studio with a floating dialog box in the middle.  In this dialog box, pick one
of the demo models to see it. You can come back later to this dialog box to
choose another model (use the "cloud" icon, bottom-right in the tools).

IMPORTANT: VR Sketch on Oculus Quest is running in the same "collaborative
viewing" mode as VR Sketch on PC when viewing any cloud model.  This means that
if there are other people that visit the same cloud model at the same time,
then everybody will see each other's avatars and hear what they say.  Please
keep it in mind when viewing the public demo models.


### View your own models

If you never uploaded any cloud model, send one now.  To do this you need to
open your model in SketchUp, and go to the menu "VR Sketch", "Upload cloud
model".  This requires you to have a registered version of VR Sketch.

You need to authorize your Quest to access the models from your cloud account.
To do this, in the Quest's floating dialog box, pick "My Account".  A 4-digits
code is presented to you.  Exit the Quest, go to your <a
href="https://vrsketch.eu/cloud.html">cloud account page,</a> and log in if
necessary.  Then click the button "Oculus Quest menu", and copy the 4-digits
code there.

Then go back to the Quest.  Your cloud models should be listed there too and
you can pick one to view it.

Check the rendering speed in the Settings dialog; the Quest doesn't have the
power of a good PC, but it's still OK if the models are not too large.  The
normal rendering speed of the Quest is 72 frames per second; we don't recommend
looking at models at less than 40 frames per second for longer than a few
minutes.

The above procedure gives your Quest read-only access to all your models, as
listed below on your <a href="https://vrsketch.eu/cloud.html">cloud account
page.</a>  You can revoke this access at any time by clicking "Oculus Quest
menu", "Remove"; or from inside the Quest itself, in the floating dialog box's
"â‹®" menu.
